# online-mall-data-analysis-project


The idea of becoming a data analyst came from a data analysis project I did during my internship in tencent. I had spontaneously created an online shopping mall data analysis report as a practice project, using order data as a basic analysis project in e-commerce data analysis, and this project analyzed the order data of Jingdong. Through data analysis and visualization to dig deeper into the causes of data generation to ensure that I master the basic data analysis skills. The data came from Jingdong May 25, 2020 The order data of large appliances - refrigerators The order data was obtained by desensitizing the data after 10% random sampling, with a total of about 70000 order data, which came from public network data. I first divided the order attributes into 3 categories, namely user attributes, order attributes and product attributes; then I used python to process the data and used plotly to visualize the data, read the provided data and check the missing values of the data. Through observation, I found that these 3 data have some missing values, including user_site_city_id (user's city number), user_site_province_id (user's province number), and check_account_tm (payment time). I guess this part of the data is missing because of the part that was skipped when the user filled in the profile and does not affect my analysis. I started by converting the type of the data, while dealing with missing values (for padding) and outliers (e.g. numbers with uniqueness have duplicate data, which I will sift through and remove). After cleaning the data, I analyzed two ratios in this project analysis: the order cancellation ratio and the order payment ratio. For the order cancellation ratio, I grabbed the count data of order_cancel and order_success and made a pie chart. The data visualization shows that 28.9% of users canceled their orders. For the order payment percentage, I grabbed the order_payed and order_unpay data and found that 15% of the users canceled the payment. My conclusion is that the percentage of cancelled payments is smaller than the percentage of cancelled orders, so for those users who have order information but have not paid, they have a strong purchase purpose and may have cancelled payments due to coupons or price, so for these users who may be price sensitive, the company can push discount cards to stimulate this type of customer spending.Through the order price distribution chart can see, more than 80% of the refrigerator price is lower than 4K, check over 70% of the refrigerator price is lower than 2K, so the refrigerator user main consumption price in 2K below, so in the refrigerator advertising promotion, can give priority to the price is lower than 2K refrigerator, this kind of refrigerator has a larger market.At the same time through the observation, refrigerator price within 4K distribution is more uniform, more than 4K after, refrigerator cumulative rise interval slowly, so we can roughly think, when the price of refrigerator more than 4K, this part of the refrigerator price we can think is partial luxury type of refrigerator, with a single refrigerator profit is high, but the sales market accounted for less.
